.TH abinv 1 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so man1/sci.an 
.SH NAME
abinv -  AB invariant subspace
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[X,nr,nvg,nv,F,k,Z]=abinv(Sl,alfa)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
sl
: \fVsyslin\fR list containing the matrices \fV[A,B,C,D]\fR.
.TP
alpha 
: real number or vector (possibly complex, location of closed loop poles)
.TP
X
: orthogonal matrix of size nx (dim of state space).
.TP
nr,nvg,nv
:
three integers with \fVnr<=nvg<=nv\fR
.TP
F
: real matrix (state feedback)
.TP
k
: integer (normal rank of \fVSl\fR)
.TP
Z
: non-singular linear system (\fVsyslin\fR list)
.SH DESCRIPTION
Output nulling subspace (maximal unobservable subspace) for
\fVSl\fR = linear system defined by a syslin list containing
the matrices [A,B,C,D] of \fVSl\fR.
The \fVnv\fR first columns of \fVX\fR i.e \fVV=X(:,1:nv)\fR, 
span this subspace which is also the unobservable subspace of 
\fV(A+B*F,C+D*F)\fR.
.LP
The \fVnr\fR first columns of \fVX\fR spans \fVR\fR, 
the controllable part of \fVV\fR, \fV(nr<=nv)\fR. \fVnr=0\fR
for a left invertible system.
.LP
The \fVnvg\fR first columns of \fVX\fR spans 
\fVVg\fR=maximal AB-stabilizable subspace. \fV(nr<=nvg<=nv)\fR.
The modes of \fVX2'*(A*BF)*X(:,1:nvg)\fR are either assignable or 
stable. For \fVX=[V,X2] (X2=X(:,nv+1:nx))\fR one has 
\fVX2'*(A+B*F)*V=0 and (C+D*F)*V=0\fR.
.LP
The zeros are given by : \fVX0=X(:,nr+1:nv); spec(X0'*(A+B*F)*X0)\fR
i.e. \fVnv-nr\fR closed-loop fixed modes.
If the optional real parameter alfa is given as input, 
the \fVnr\fR controllable modes of \fV(A+BF)\fR are set to \fValfa\fR.
.LP
\fVZ\fR is a column compression of \fVSl\fR and \fVk\fR
the normal rank of \fVSl\fR. (\fVnv=nx\fR  iff C^(-1)(D)=0).
.LP
.nf
DDPS:
   Find u=Fx+Rd which reject Q*d and stabilizes the plant:

    xdot=Ax+Bu+Qd
    y=Cx+Du
DDPS has a solution iff Im(Q) is included in Vg + Im(B). 
Let G=(X(:,nvg+1:nx))'= left anihilator of Vg i.e. G*Vg=0;
B2=G*B; Q2=G*Q; DDPS solvable iff B2(:,1:k)*R1 + Q2 =0 has a solution.
R=[R1;*] is the solution  (with F=output of abinv).
Im(Q2) is in Im(B2) means row-compression of B2=>row-compression of Q2
Then C*[(sI-A-B*F)^(-1)+D]*(Q+B*R) =0   (<=>G*(Q+B*R)=0)
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
nu=3;ny=4;nx=7;
nrt=2;ngt=3;ng0=3;nvt=5;rk=2;
flag=list('on',nrt,ngt,ng0,nvt,rk);
Sl=ssrand(ny,nu,nx,flag);alfa=-1;
[X,nr,nvg,nv,F,k,Z]=abinv(Sl,alfa);
[A,B,C,D]=abcd(Sl);
V=X(:,1:nv);X2=X(:,nv+1:nx);
X2'*(A+B*F)*V
(C+D*F)*V
X0=X(:,nr+1:nv); spec(X0'*(A+B*F)*X0)
trzeros(Sl)
clean(ss2tf(Sl*Z))
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
F.D.
.SH SEE ALSO
abinv, st_ility, ssrand
