.TH ANIMXY_f 5 "Janvier 1996" "Scilab Group" "Scicos Block"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
ANIMXY_f - Scicos 2D animated visualization block
.SH DESCRIPTION
This block realizes the visualization of the evolution of the two
regular input signals by drawing the second input as a function of
the first at instants of events on the event input port.
.SH DIALOGUE PARAMETERS
.TP 20
Curve colors
: an integer. It is the color number (>=0)
or marker type (<0) used to draw the evolution of the input port
signal. See \fVxset()\fR for color (dash type) definitions.
.TP
Line or mark size
: an integer. 
.TP
Output window number
: The number of graphic window used for the display. It is often good
to use high values to avoid conflict with palettes and Super Block
windows. If you have more than one scope, make sure they don't have
the same window numbers (unless superposition of the curves is
desired).
.TP
Output window position
: a 2 vector specifying the coordinates of the upper left corner of
the graphic window. Answer [] for default window position.
.TP
Output window size
: a 2 vector specifying the width and height  of 
the graphic window. Answer [] for default window dimensions.
.TP
Xmin, Xmax
: Minimum and maximum values of the first input; used to set up the X-axis
of the plot in the graphics window.
.TP
Ymin, Ymax
: Minimum and maximum values of the second input; used to set up the 
Y-axis of the plot in the graphics window.
.TP
Buffer size
: an integer. In order to minimize the number of graphics outputs, data
may buffered.
.SH REMARKS
Output window number, Output window size, Output window
position are only taken into account at the initialisation time of the
simulation. 


.SH SEE ALSO
SCOPE_f, EVENTSCOPE_f, SCOPXY_f





