.TH scifunc_block 5 "Janvier 1996" "Scilab Group" "Scicos Block"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
scifunc_block - Scicos block defined interactively
.SH DESCRIPTION
This block can realize any type of Scicos block. The function of the
block is defined interactively using dialogue boxes and in Scilab
language. During simulation, these instructions are interpreted by
Scilab; the simulation of diagrams that include these types of blocks 
is slower. For more information see Scicos reference manual.
.SH DIALOGUE PARAMETERS
.TP 
number of inputs
: a scalar. Number of regular input ports
.TP 
number of outputs
: a scalar. Number of regular output ports
.TP 
number of input events
: a scalar. Number of input event ports
.TP 
number of output events
: a scalar. Number of output event ports
.TP
Initial continuous state
: a column vector.
.TP
Initial discrete state
: a column vector.
.TP
System type
: a string: c or d (CBB or DBB, other types are not supported).
.TP
System parameter
: column vector. Any parameters used in the block can be defined here
a column vector.
.TP
initial firing
: vector. Size of this vector corresponds to the number of event
outputs. The value of the i-th entry specifies the time of the
preprogrammed event firing on the i-th output event port. If less than
zero, no event is preprogrammed.

.TP
Instructions
: other dialogues are opened consecutively where used may input Scilab
code associated with the computations needed (block initialization,
outputs, continuous and 
discrete state, output events date, block ending),

.SH SEE ALSO
GENERIC_f




