.TH xset 2 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
xset - set values of the graphic context
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
xset(choice-name,x1,x2,x3,x4,x5)
xset()
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
choice-name
: string
.TP 15
x1,...,x5
: depending on \fVchoice-name\fR
.TP
xset("alufunction",number)
: used to set the logical function for drawing, it works only under X11.
The logical function used is set by \fVx1\fR. The default value is 3.
.RS
.TP
 0
: function  " 0 ",
.TP
 1
: function " src AND dst "
.TP
 2
: function " src AND NOT dst "
.TP
 3
: function " src ",
.TP
 4
: function " NOT src AND dst "
.TP
 5
: function " dst ",
.TP
 6
: function " src XOR dst ",
.TP
 7
: function " src OR dst ",
.TP
 8
: function " NOT src AND NOT dst ",
.TP
 9
: function " NOT src XOR dst ",
.TP
10
: function " NOT dst ",
.TP
11
: function " src OR NOT dst ",
.TP
12
: function " NOT src ",
.TP
13
: function " NOT src OR dst ",
.TP
14
: function " NOT src OR NOT dst ",
.TP
15
: function " 1 ";
.RE
xset("background",color)
: to fix the background color of the current graphic window.
.TP
xset("clipping",x,y,w,h) 
: set the clipping
zone to the rectangle (x,y,w,h) (Upper-Left point Width Height).
This function uses the current scale
.TP
xset("colormap",cmap)
: set the colormap as a m x 3 matrix. m is the number of colors.
Color number i is given as a 3-uple cmap[i,1], cmap[i,2], cmap[i,3]
corresponding respectively to Red, Green and Blue intensity between
0 and 1.
.TP
xset("default")
: reset the graphic context to default values
.TP
xset("dashes",i)
: set the dash style to style i (0 for solid line)
.TP
xset("font",fontid,fontsize)
: to fix the current font and its current size.
.TP
xset("foreground",color)
: to fix the foreground color of the current graphic window.
.TP
xset("hidden3d",colorid)
: set the color number for ``hidden'' faces in plot3d.
.TP
xset("line mode",type);
This function is used to fix the line drawing mode. Absolute mode is fixed withtype=1 an relative mode with type=0. (Warning : the mode type=0 is bugged )
.TP
xset("mark",markid,marksize)
: is used to set the current mark and current mark size.
.TP
xset("pattern",value)
: to set the current pattern for filling functions, value is an integer 
projected in the interval [0,whiteid]. 0 is used for black filling and 
whiteid for white. The value of whiteid can be obtained with xget("white").
.TP
xset("thickness",value)
: fixes the thickness of lines in pixel  ( 0 and 1 have the same meaning : 1 pixel thick)
.TP
xset("wdim",width,height)
: fixes the width and height of the current graphic window. This option is not
used by the postscript driver.
.TP
xset("wpos",x,y);
: fixes the position of the upper left point of the graphic window.
.TP
xset("window",window-number)
Set the current window to the window \fVwindow-number\fR and creates the window if 
it doesn't exists.
.TP
xset("use color",flag)
if flag=1 then xset("pattern",.) or xset("dashes",.) will be used so
as to change the default Color for drawing or for filling patterns. 
If flag=0 then we switch back to the gray and dashes mode.
.TP
xset("pixmap",flag)
.RS
.TP
if
flag=0 the graphics are directly displayed on the screen
.TP
if 
flag=1 the graphics are done on a Pixmap and are send to the
graphic window with the command  \fVxset("wshow")\fR. The Pixmap is
cleared with the  command \fVxset("wwpc")\fR or with the usual command
xbasc().
.RE
.TP 
xset("wshow")
: see the function \fVdriver\fR.
.TP
xset("wwpc")
: see the function \fVdriver\fR.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fVxset\fR is used to set values of the graphic context. When called 
no arguments, a choice menu is created showing the current values and 
changes can be performed through toggle buttons 
.SH SEE ALSO
xget, colormap
.SH REFERENCE
X11 documentation
.SH AUTHOR
J.Ph.C.
