.TH pvm_addhosts 1 "May 1998" "Scilab // Group" "Scilab function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
pvm_addhosts - add hosts to the virtual machine.
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[infos] = pvm_addhosts(hosts)
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 5
hosts
: row of strings, naming the hosts to be added.
.TP 4
infos
: row of integer,  corresponding to the status for each host.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fVpvm_addhosts\fR
adds the computers named in
.I hosts
to the configuration of computers making up the virtual machine.
The names should have the same syntax as lines of a pvmd hostfile
(see man page for pvmd3):
A hostname followed by options of the form xx=y.
.PP
The array
.I infos
can be checked to determine the status for each host.
Values less than zero indicate an error,
while positive values are TIDs of the new hosts.
.PP
.\"If a host fails, the PVM system will continue to function.
.\"The user can use this routine to increase the fault tolerance
.\"of his PVM application.
The status of hosts can be requested by the application using
 \fIpvm_config\fR.
If a host fails it will be automatically deleted from the configuration.
Using pvm_addhosts a replacement host can be added by the application,
however
it is the responsibility of the
application developer to make his application tolerant of host failure.
Another use of this feature would be to add more hosts
as they become available, for example on a weekend, or if the
application dynamically determines it could use more computational power.
.\".PP
.\"pvm_addhosts requires the synchronization of the entire virtual machine.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
info = pvm_addhosts(["isostar","loop"])
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
pvm_delhosts, pvm_config
