.TH mfile2sci 1 "April 1998" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
mfile2sci - Matlab M_file to scilab translation function
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
mfile2sci(M_file_path [,result_path [,Imode [,Recmode]]])
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 15
M_file_path
: a character string which gives the path of Matlab M_file to
translate
.TP
result_path
: a character string which gives the directory where the result has to
be written. Default value is current directory.
.TP
Imode
: Boolean flag, If true mfile2sci ask user for variable type and sizes
when he cannot infer them. Default value : %f

.TP 10
Recmode
: Boolean flag, used by translatepaths function. Must be %f to
translate a single mfile.

.SH DESCRIPTION
mfile2sci, is Matlab M-file to Scilab function traduction tools. It
tries whenever possible to replace call to Matlab functions by the
equivalent scilab primitives and functions.

 
To translate a Matlab M-file just enter the scilab instruction:
mfile2sci(file)

where file is a character string giving the path name of the M-file
mfile2sci will generate three files in the same directory

<function_name>.sci      : the scilab equivalent of the m_file

<function_name>.cat      : the scilab help file associated to the function

sci_<function_name>.sci  : the scilab function required to translate
                           the calls to this  Matlab M_file in other Matlab M_files.
                           this function may be improved "by hand".
.LP
Some functions like eye, ones, size, sum,... behave differently
according to the dimension of their arguments. When mfile2sci cannot
infer dimensions it replaces these function call by a call to an
emulation function named mtlb_<function_name>. For efficiency these
functions may be replaced by the proper scilab equivalent instructions.
.LP
Some other functions like plot, has no straightforward translation in
scilab. They are also replaced by an emulation function named
mtlb_<function_name>.
.LP
When translation may be incorrect or may be improved mfile2sci adds a
comment which began by "//!"
.SH REMARKS
This function is a still under developpement and is delivered as beta
test.

Some Matlab4 basic functions are not yet translated. It is quite simple to
add it. See <SCIDIR>/macros/m2sci/README for more details.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
.TP 4
1- 
: m_files scripts are translated but sci_<Matlab function name>
   replaces the call to the m_file by an exec of
   an exec (.sce) file, the .sce file path may be incorrect.
.TP
2-
: eval function instructions passed as strings are not translated.
.TP
3-
: most of plot function are not yet translated
.TP
4-
: globals are not translated
.TP
5-
: if, for, endded by the end of file produce an error, add the closing
end's 
.TP
6- 
: Loop variable of for clause is available afterwards if loops terminates 
   normally in matlab; it is cleared  in Scilab generated code.
.TP
7- 
: inequality comparison which implies complex numbers produce a run
time error such as "undefined variable : %s_2_s". User can define
these operation with Matlab meaning with the following function definition:

deff('r=%s_1_s(a,b)','r=real(a)<real(b)') 

deff('r=%s_2_s(a,b)','r=real(a)>real(b)') 
 
deff('r=%s_3_s(a,b)','r=real(a)<=real(b)')
 
deff('r=%s_4_s(a,b)','r=real(a)>=real(b)')  
.TP
8- 
: When i is a vector, Matlab allows insertions like a(i)=v for any
v. In scilab v must have the same shape as a(i). This produces run
time errors "submatrix incorrectly defined". Rewrite them as 
a(i)=v.' .
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
//create a simple m_file
write(TMPDIR+'rot90.m',['function B = rot90(A,k)'
 '[m,n] = size(A);'
 'if nargin == 1'
 '    k = 1;'
 'else'
 '    k = rem(k,4);'
 '    if k < 0'
 '        k = k + 4;'
 '    end'
 'end'
 'if k == 1'
 '    A = A.'';'
 '    B = A(n:-1:1,:);'
 'elseif k == 2'
 '    B = A(m:-1:1,n:-1:1);'
 'elseif k == 3'
 '    B = A(m:-1:1,:);'
 '    B = B.'';'
 'else'
 '    B = A;'
 'end']);
// translate it dor scilab
mfile2sci(TMPDIR+'rot90.m',TMPDIR)
// show the new code
write(%io(2),read(TMPDIR+'rot90.sci',-1,1,'(a)'))
// get it into scilab
getf(TMPDIR+'rot90.sci')
//execute it
m=rand(4,2);rot90(m,1)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
translatepaths
.SH AUTHOR
Serge Steer, INRIA
