.TH cdfbet 1 "Dec 1997" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
cdfbet - cumulative distribution function Beta distribution 
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[P,Q]=cdfbet("PQ",X,Y,A,B)
[X,Y]=cdfbet("XY",A,B,P,Q)
[A]=cdfbet("A",B,P,Q,X,Y)
[B]=cdfbet("B",P,Q,X,Y,A)
.fi 
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
P,Q,X,Y,A,B
: five real vectors of the same size.
.TP 10
P,Q (Q=1-P)
: The integral from 0 to X of the beta distribution (Input range: [0, 1].)
.TP
Q
: 1-P
.TP
X,Y (Y=1-X)
: Upper limit of integration of beta density (Input range: [0,1], 
Search range: [0,1])
A,B
: The two parameters of the beta density (input range: (0,
+infinity), Search range: [1D-300,1D300] ) 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Calculates any one parameter of the beta distribution given
values for the others (The beta density is proportional to 
\fVt^(A-1) * (1-t)^(B-1)\fR.
.LP
Cumulative distribution function  (P)  is calculated directly by
code associated with the following reference.
.LP
DiDinato, A. R. and Morris,  A.   H.  Algorithm 708: Significant
Digit Computation of the Incomplete  Beta  Function Ratios.  ACM
Trans. Math.  Softw. 18 (1993), 360-373.
.LP
Computation of other parameters involve a seach for a value that
produces  the desired  value  of P.   The search relies  on  the
monotinicity of P with the other parameter.
.LP
From DCDFLIB: Library of Fortran Routines for Cumulative Distribution
Functions, Inverses, and Other Parameters (February, 1994)
Barry W. Brown, James Lovato and Kathy Russell. The University of
Texas.
