.TH mprintf 1 "Aug 1999" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
 mfprintf - converts, formats, and writes  data to a file 
 mprintf - converts, formats, and writes  data to the main scilab window
 msprintf - converts, formats, and writes  data in a string
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
mfprintf(fd,format,a1,...,an);
mprintf(format,a1,...,an);
str=msprintf(format,a1,...,an);
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
fd : scalar, file descriptor given by \fVmopen\fR (it's a positive
integer). The value \fV-1\fR refers to the default file ( i.e the last
opened file).
.TP 
format
: a Scilab string describing  the
format to use to write  the  remaining  operands. 
The format operand follows, as close as possible, 
the C printf format operand syntax. 
.TP 
str
: a character string, string to be scanned.
.TP
a1,...,an
: Specifies the data to be converted and printed according to the format
parameter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fVmprintf\fR, \fVmfprintf\fR, and \fVmsprintf\fR functions are interface for C-coded version of \fVprintf\fR, \fVfprintf\fR and
\fVsprintf\fR functions.
.LP
The \fVmprintf\fR function 
writes formatted operands to the standard Scilab output
(i.e the Scilab window). The  argument operands are formatted under control
of the format operand.
.LP
The \fVmfprintf\fR function writes formatted operands to the file
specified by the file desciptor 
\fVfd\fR. The  argument operands are formatted under control
of the format operand.
.LP
The \fVmsprintf\fR 
writes formatted operands in its returned value (a Scilab string).
The  argument operands are formatted under control
of the format operand. Note that, in this case, the  escape
sequences (\fV"\n, \t,.."\fR) are treated as a normal sequence of
characters.
.LP
All these functions may be used to output column vectors of numbers
and string vectors without an explicit loop on the elements. In that
case these functions iterates on the rows. The shortest vector gives
the number of time the format has to be iterated.
.LP
An homogeneous sequence of identical type parameters can be
replaced by a matrix

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
mprintf('At iteration %i, Result is:\nalpha=%f',33,0.535)

msprintf('%5.3f %5.3f',123,0.732)
msprintf('%5.3f\\n%5.3f',123,0.732)

A=rand(5,2);
// vectorized forms: the format directive needs 
// two operand, each column of A is used as an operand. 
// and the mprintf function is applied on each row of A 
mprintf('%5.3f\\t%5.3f\\n',A)

colors=['red';'green';'blue';'pink';'black'];
RGB=[1 0 0;0 1 0;0 0 1;1 0.75 0.75;0 0 0];
mprintf('%d\\t%s\\t%f\\t%f\\t%f\\n',(1:5)',colors,RGB)

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
mclose, meof, mfprintf, fprintfMat, mfscanf, fscanfMat, mget, mgetstr, mopen, mprintf, mput, mputstr, mscanf, mseek, mtell

