.TH mscanf 1 "Aug 1999" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
 mfscanf - scan data from  file 
 mscanf - scan data from input 
 msscanf - scan data from string
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[n,a1,...,am]=mfscanf(fd,format);
data=mfscanf(fd,format);

[n,a1,...,am]=mscanf(format);
data=mscanf(format);

[n,a1,...,am]=msscanf(str,format);
data=msscanf(str,format);
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
fd : scalar, file descriptor given by \fVmopen\fR (it's a positive
integer). The value \fV-1\fR refers to the default file ( i.e the last
opened file).
.TP 
format
: a character string, a C like format.
.TP 
str
: a character string, string to be scanned.
.TP
n
: a scalar integer, the number or data really read.
.TP
a1,...,am 
: Output variables. if \fVm>n\fR the \fVn+1:n\fR last
\fVai'\fR are set to \fV[]\fR.
.TP
data
: a list formed by the data really read.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The mscanf(), mfscanf(), and msscanf() functions are interface for
C-coded version of \fVfscanf\fR, \fVsscanf\fR and \fVscanf\fR
functions.
.LP
The mscanf(), mfscanf(), and msscanf() functions read character data,
interpret it according to a format (see cformat), and store the
converted results into variables. The format parameter contains
conversion specifications used to interpret the input.
.LP
These functions read their input from the following sources:
.TP 10
mscanf()
:  Reads from the Scilab input.
.TP
mfscanf()  
: Reads from the file given by the file descriptor \fVfd\fR.
.TP
msscanf()
: Reads from the character string specified by the \fVstr\fR parameter.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
[n,a1,a2]=msscanf('123 456','%i %s')
[n,a1,a2,a3]=msscanf('123 456','%i %s')
data=msscanf('123 456','%i %s')

fd=mopen(SCI+'/scilab.star','r')
mfscanf(fd,'%s %s %s')
mclose(fd)

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
mclose, meof, mfprintf, fprintfMat, mfscanf, fscanfMat, mget, mgetstr, mopen, mprintf, mput, mputstr, mscanf, mseek, mtell


