.TH SCOPE_f 5 "Janvier 1996" "Scilab Group" "Scicos Block"
.so man1/sci.an
.SH NAME
SCOPE - Scicos visualization block
.SH DESCRIPTION
This block realizes the visualization of the evolution of the signals
on the standard input port(s) at instants of events on the event
input port.
.SH DIALOG PARAMETERS
.TP 20
Block label
: A string defining the block label. This label is written under
the block. 
.TP
Number of inputs
: an integer, the number of input ports
.TP
Curve colors
: a vector of integers. The i-th element is the color number (<0)
or dash type (>0) used to draw the evolution of the i-th 
input port signal. See \fVplot2d\fR for color (dash type) definitions.
.TP
Output window number
: The number of graphic window used for the display. It is often good
to use high values to avoid conflict with palettes and Super Block
windows. If you have more than one scope, make sure they don't have
the same window numbers (unless superposition of the curves is desired).
.TP
Ymin, Ymax
: Minimum and maximum values of the input; used to set up the Y-axis
of the plot in the graphics window.
.TP
Refresh period
: Maximum value on the X-axis (time). The plot is redrawn when time
reaches a multiple of this value.
.TP
Buffer size
: To improve efficiency it is possible to buffer the input data. The
drawing is only done after each \fVBuffer size\fR call to the block.
.TP
dt
: If dt is 0, time is used for the X-axis (normal operation).
 If dt is not zero, the x-axis advances by \fVdt\fR everytime an
event arrives at the event input port. 
.SH SEE ALSO
SCOPXY_f EVENTSCOPE_f ANIMXY_f




