.TH bode 1 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
bode - Bode plot
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
bode(sl,[fmin,fmax] [,step] [,comments] )
bode(sl,frq [,comments] )
bode(frq,db,phi [,comments])
bode(frq, repf  [,comments])
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 15
sl
: \fVsyslin\fR list (SISO or SIMO linear system) in continuous or 
discrete time.
.TP
fmin,fmax
: real (frequency bounds (in Hz)) 
.TP
step      
: real (logarithmic step.)
.TP
comments 
: vector of character strings (captions).
.TP
frq      
: row vector or matrix (frequencies (in Hz) )
(one row for each SISO subsystem).
.TP
db       
: row vector or matrix ( magnitudes (in Db)).
(one row for each SISO subsystem).
.TP
phi      
: row vector or matrix ( phases (in degree))
(one row for each SISO subsystem).
.TP
repf     
: row vector or matrix of complex numbers (complex frequency response).
.SH DESCRIPTION
Bode plot, i.e magnitude and phase of the frequency response of \fVsl\fR.

\fVsl\fR can be a continuous-time or discrete-time SIMO system (see \fVsyslin\fR).
In case of multi-output the outputs are plotted with different
symbols.

.LP
The frequencies are given by the bounds \fVfmin,fmax\fR (in Hz) or by a row-vector
(or a matrix for multi-output) \fVfrq\fR.

.LP
\fVstep\fR is the ( logarithmic ) discretization step. (see \fVcalfrq\fR for the
choice of default value).

.LP
\fVcomments \fR is a vector of character strings (captions).

.LP
\fVdb,phi\fR are the matrices of modulus (in Db) and phases (in degrees). 
(One row for each response).

.LP
\fVrepf \fR matrix of complex numbers. One row for each response.

.LP
Default values for \fVfmin\fR and \fVfmax\fR are
\fV1.d-3\fR, \fV1.d+3\fR if \fVsl\fR is continuous-time
or \fV1.d-3\fR, \fV0.5\fR if \fVsl\fR is discrete-time.
Automatic discretization of frequencies is made by \fVcalfrq\fR.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
s=poly(0,'s')
h=syslin('c',(s^2+2*0.9*10*s+100)/(s^2+2*0.3*10.1*s+102.01))
title='(s^2+2*0.9*10*s+100)/(s^2+2*0.3*10.1*s+102.01)';
bode(h,0.01,100,title);
h1=h*syslin('c',(s^2+2*0.1*15.1*s+228.01)/(s^2+2*0.9*15*s+225))
xbasc()
bode([h1;h],0.01,100,['h1';'h'])
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
black, nyquist, freq, repfreq, g_margin, p_margin, calfrq, phasemag
