.TH graphics 2 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function" 
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME 
Graphics - Graphic library for Scilab 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
GENERAL PLOTTING
.PP
\fVplot3d\fR: 3d plotting of a matrix of point.
.LP
.PP
\fVplot3d1\fR: 3d plotting of a matrix of point with gray levels.
.LP
.PP
\fVfplot3d\fR: 3d plotting of a surface described by a function
.LP
.PP
\fVfplot3d1\fR: 3d plotting of a surface described by a function with gray levels
.LP
.PP
\fVplot2d\fR: for 2d plotting \fVplot2d1,plot2d2,plot2d3,plot2d4\fR
.LP
.PP
\fVfplot2d\fR: 2d plotting of a a curve described by a function 
.LP
.PP
\fVerrbar\fR: adds error bars on a plot2d graphic 
.LP
.PP
\fVxgrid\fR: adds a grid on a 2d graphic.
.LP
.PP
\fVxtitle\fR: adds title and axis names on a 2d graphic
.LP
.PP
\fVparam3d\fR: plots curves in 3d space
.LP
.PP
\fVstair2d\fR: 2d piece-size constant plotting.
.LP
.PP
\fVchamp\fR: vector field in R2
.LP
.PP
\fVfchamp\fR: for a vector field in R2 defined by a function
.LP
.PP
\fVcontour\fR: level curves for a 3d function given by a matrix.
.LP
.PP
\fVgrayplot10\fR: gray level on a 2d plot 
.LP
.PP
\fVfcontour10\fR: level curves for a 3d function given by a function.
.LP
.PP
\fVfgrayplot10\fR: gray level on a 2D plot 
.LP
.PP
\fVxchange\fR: scale conversion between plot2d and pixels
.LP
.PP
\fVgr_menu\fR: small interactive editor
.LP
.PP
\fVhist3d\fR: 3d histogram
.LP
.PP
\fVxrpoly\fR: graphic display of a regular polygon
.LP
.PP
\fVtitlepage\fR: graphic title page
.LP
POLYLINES PLOTTING
.PP
\fVxpoly\fR: draws a polyline 
.LP
.PP
\fVxpolys\fR: draws a set of polylines
.LP
.PP
\fVxfpoly\fR: fills a polygon 
.LP
.PP
\fVxfpolys\fR: fills a set of polygons
.LP
SEGMENTS PLOTTING
.PP
\fVxsegs\fR: draws a set of unconnected segments.
.LP
ARROWS PLOTTING
.PP
\fVxarrows\fR: draws a set of unconnected arrows.
.LP
RECTANGLES PLOTTING
.PP
\fVxrect\fR: draws a single rectangle
.LP
.PP
\fVxfrect\fR: fills a single rectangle
.LP
.PP
\fVxrects\fR: fills or draws a set of rectangles 
.LP
ARCS PLOTTING
.PP
\fVxarc \fR: draws an ellipsis
.LP
.PP
\fVxfarc\fR: fills an ellipsis
.LP
.PP
\fVxarcs\fR: fills or draws a set of ellipsis.
.LP
STRINGS 
.PP
\fVxstring\fR: draws a string or a matrix of strings.
.LP
.PP
\fVxstringl\fR: computes a rectangle which surrounds a string
.LP
.PP
\fVxstringb\fR: draws a string in a specified box 
.LP
.PP
\fVxnumb\fR: draws a set of numbers 
.LP
AXIS DRAWING
.PP
\fVxaxis\fR: draws an axis.
.LP
UTILITIES
.PP
\fVsecto3d\fR: Conversion of a surface description from sector to plot3d compatible data.
.LP
.PP
\fVeval3d\fR: evaluates a function on a regular grid. (see also \fVfeval\fR)
.LP
COORDINATES TRANSFORMS
.PP
\fVisoview\fR: isometric scale.
.LP
.PP
\fVsquare\fR: isometric scale.
.LP
.PP
\fVscaling\fR: scaling on datas 
.LP
.PP
\fVrotate\fR: rotation 
.LP
.PP
\fVxgetech,xsetech\fR: change of scale inside the graphic window (not fully released).
.LP 
RECORDING
.PP
\fVxtape\fR: record graphic instructions
.LP
PRINTING AND REDISPLAY
.PP
\fVxbasc\fR: clears window and recorded graphics 
.LP
.PP
\fVxbasimp\fR: redisplays graphics to postscript printer 
.LP
.PP
\fVxbasr\fR: redisplays graphics 
.LP
GRAPHICS PRIMITIVES
.LP
X-window and Postscript graphic primitives
.LP
.PP
\fVdriver\fR: to select a graphic driver
.LP
.PP
\fVxinit\fR: to initialise a graphic driver 
.LP
.PP
\fVxclear\fR: clears one or more graphic windows
.LP
.PP
\fVxpause\fR: a pause in milliseconds.
.LP
.PP
\fVxselect\fR: raises the current graphic window.
.LP
.PP
\fVxclick\fR: waits for a mouse click
.LP
.PP
\fVxclea\fR: clears a rectangular zone inside the current graphic window.
.LP
.PP
\fVxend \fR: closes a graphic session.
.LP
GRAPHIC CONTEXT
.PP
\fVxset \fR: to set graphic context values
.LP
.PP
\fVxget \fR: to get information on the current graphic context
.LP
.PP
\fVxlfont\fR: to load a new family of fonts from the X-Window Manager
.LP
COLORS
.PP
\fVcolormap \fR: to get information on using colors
.PP
.LP
\fVaddcolor \fR: to add new colors in the colormap
.LP
.SH AUTHOR 
J.Ph C






