.TH xget 2 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
xget - get current values of the graphics context
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[x1]=xget(str,[flag])
xget()
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
str
: string.
.TP
flag
: optional. Set to 1 gives a verbose mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to get values from the graphics context
on the topic specified by the string \fVstr\fR. When called with
no argument, a choice menu is created showing the current values and 
changes can be performed through toggle buttons.
.TP
number=xget("alufunction")
: Get the logical function number used for drawing.
See \fVxset\fR.
.TP
str=xset("auto clear")
: Get the auto clear status (\fV"on"\fR or \fV"off"\fR).
.TP
color=xget("background")
: Get the background color of the current graphics window.
.TP
rect=xget("clipping") 
:  Get the clipping
zone as a rectangle rect=[x,y,w,h] (Upper-Left point Width Height).
.TP
cmap=xget("colormap")
: Get the colormap used for the current graphics window as a m x 3 RGB matrix.
.TP
dash=xget("dashes")
: Get the dash style dash=[dash_number] where dash_number is the id
of the dash.
.TP
font=xget("font")
: Get font=[fontid,fontsize], the current font and its current size.
.TP
color=xget("foreground")
: Get the foreground color of the current graphics window.
.TP
str=xget("fpf")
: Get the floating point format for number display in
contour functions. Note that \fVstr\fR is \fV""\fR when default format is used.
.TP
color=xget("hidden3d")
: Get the color number for hidden faces in plot3d.
.TP
pat=xget("lastpattern")
: Get the id of the last available pattern or color, with the current 
colormap of 
the current window. In fact \fVpat+1\fR and \fVpat+2\fR are also available and
stand respectively for black and white pattern. 
.TP
type=xget("line mode")
: Get the line drawing mode. 
type=1 is absolute mode and type=0 is relative mode.
(Warning: the mode type=0 is has bugs)
.TP
mark=xget("mark")
: Get the current mark and current mark size mark=[markid,marksize].
.TP
pat=xget("pattern")
: Get the current pattern or the current color. \fVpat\fR is an integer 
in the range \fV[1,last]\fR. When one uses black and white, 
0 is used for black filling and 
\fVlast\fR for white. The value of \fVlast\fR can be obtained with 
\fVxget("lastpattern")\fR. 
.TP
value=xget("thickness")
: Get the thickness of lines in pixel (0 and 1 have the same meaning: 1 pixel thick).
.TP
flag=xget("use color")
: Get the flag 0 (use black and white) or 1 (use colors). See \fVxset\fR.
.TP
[x,y]=xget("viewport")
: Get the current postion of the visible part of graphics in the panner.
.TP
dim=xget("wdim")
: Get the width and the height of the current graphics window dim=[width,height].
.TP
win=xget("window")
: Get the current window number \fVwin\fR.
.TP
pos=xget("wpos",x,y);
: Get the position of the upper left point of the graphics window pos=[x,y].
.SH SEE ALSO
xset, colormap
.SH AUTHOR
J.Ph.C.
