.TH dassl G "June 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
dassl - differential algebraic equation
.SH  CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[r [,hd]]=dassl(x0,t0,t [,atol,[rtol]],res [,jac] [,info] [,hd])
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
x0  
: is either \fVy0\fR (\fVydot0\fR is estimated by \fVdassl\fR with zero as first estimate) or the matrix \fV[y0 ydot0]\fR. 
\fVg(t,y0,ydot0)\fR must be equal to zero. If you only know an estimate 
of \fVydot0\fR set \fVinfo(7)=1\fR
.RS
.TP 10
y0
: real column vector  of initial conditions.
.TP
ydot0 
: real column vector of the time derivative of \fVy\fR at \fVt0\fR
(may be an estimate).
.RE
.TP
t0 
: real number is the initial instant.
.TP
t 
: real scalar or vector. Gives instants for which you want the solution. Note that you can get solution at each dassl's step point by setting \fVinfo(2)=1\fR.
.TP
atol,rtol
: real scalars or column vectors of same size as \fVy\fR. \fVatol,rtol\fR give respectively  absolute and relative error tolerances of solution. 
If vectors the tolerances are specified for each component of \fVy\fR.
.TP
res 
: external (function or list or string). Computes the  value of \fVg(t,y,ydot)\fR.
.RS
.TP 8
function
: Its calling sequence must be \fV[r,ires]=res(t,y,ydot)\fR
and \fVres\fR must return the residue \fVr=g(t,y,ydot)\fR  and error flag 
\fVires\fR. \fVires = 0\fR if \fVres\fR succeeds to compute \fVr\fR, \fV=-1\fR 
if residue is locally not defined for \fV(t,y,ydot)\fR, \fV=-2\fR if 
parameters are out of admissible range.
.TP
list
: it must be as follows:
.nf
list(res,x1,x2,...)
.fi 
where the calling sequence of the function \fVres\fR is now
.nf
r=res(t,y,ydot,x1,x2,...)
.fi
\fVres\fR still returns \fVr=g(t,y,ydot)\fR as a function of
\fV(t,y,ydot,x1,x2,...)\fR.
.TP
string
: it must refer to the name of
a fortran subroutine (see source code of of \fVEx-dassl.f\fR in routines/defaut/).
.RE
.TP
jac
: external (function or list or string). Computes the  value 
of \fVdg/dy+cj*dg/dydot\fR for a given value of parameter \fVcj\fR
.RS
.TP 8
function
: Its calling sequence must be \fVr=jac(t,y,ydot,cj)\fR
and the \fVjac\fR function must return
\fVr=dg(t,y,ydot)/dy+cj*dg(t,y,ydot)/dydot\fR where \fVcj\fR is a real scalar
.TP
list
: it must be as follows
.nf
list(jac,x1,x2,...)
.fi 
where the calling sequence of the function \fVjac\fR is now
.nf
r=jac(t,y,ydot,x1,x2,...)
.fi
\fVjac\fR still returns \fVdg/dy+cj*dg/dydot\fR as a function of
\fV(t,y,ydot,cj,x1,x2,...)\fR.
.TP
character string
: it must refer to the name of a fortran subroutine 
(see source code of \fVEx-dassl.f\fR in routines/defaut/).
.RE
.TP
info
: list which contains \fV7\fR elements, default value is list([],0,[],[],[],0,0);
.RS
.TP 8
info(1)
: real scalar which gives the maximum time for which \fVg\fR is allowed 
to be evaluated or an empty matrix \fV[]\fR if no limits imposed for time.
.TP
info(2)
: flag which indicates if \fVdassl\fR returns its intermediate 
computed values (\fVflag=1\fR) or only the user specified time point 
values (\fVflag=0\fR).
.TP
info(3)
: \fV2\fR components vector which give the definition \fV[ml,mu]\fR of band 
matrix computed by \fVjac\fR;
\fVr(i - j + ml + mu + 1,j) = "dg(i)/dy(j)+cj*dg(i)/dydot(j)"\fR. 
If \fVjac\fR returns a full matrix set \fVinfo(3)=[]\fR.
.TP
info(4)
: real scalar which gives the maximum step size. Set \fVinfo(4)=[]\fR if no 
limitation.
.TP
info(5)
: real scalar which gives the initial step size. Set \fVinfo(4)=[]\fR if 
not specified.
.TP
info(6)
: set \fVinfo(6)=1\fR if the solution is known to be non negative, 
else set \fVinfo(6)=0\fR.
.TP
info(7)
: set \fVinfo(7)=1\fR if \fVydot0\fR is just an estimation, \fVinfo(7)=0\fR
if \fVg(t0,y0,ydot0)=0\fR.
.RE
.TP
hd
: real vector which allows to store the \fVdassl\fR context and to 
resume integration
.TP
r
: real matrix . Each column is the vector [t;x(t);xdot(t)] where t is time
index for which the solution had been computed
.SH DESCRIPTION
Solution of the implicit differential equation
.nf
    g(t,y,ydot)=0
    y(t0)=y0  and   ydot(t0)=ydot0
.fi
Detailed examples are given in SCIDIR/tests/dassldasrt.tst
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
 deff('[r,ires]=chemres(t,y,yd)',[
         'r(1)=-0.04*y(1)+1d4*y(2)*y(3)-yd(1);';
         'r(2)=0.04*y(1)-1d4*y(2)*y(3)-3d7*y(2)*y(2)-yd(2);'
         'r(3)=y(1)+y(2)+y(3)-1;'
         'ires=0']);
 deff('[pd]=chemjac(x,y,yd,cj)',[
         'pd=[-0.04-cj , 1d4*y(3)               , 1d4*y(2);';
         '0.04    ,-1d4*y(3)-2*3d7*y(2)-cj ,-1d4*y(2);';
         '1       , 1                      , 1       ]'])

y0=[1;0;0];
yd0=[-0.04;0.04;0];
t=[1.d-5:0.02:.4,0.41:.1:4,40,400,4000,40000,4d5,4d6,4d7,4d8,4d9,4d10];


y=dassl([y0,yd0],0,t,chemres);

info=list([],0,[],[],[],0,0);
info(2)=1;
y=dassl([y0,yd0],0,4d10,chemres,info);
y=dassl([y0,yd0],0,4d10,chemres,chemjac,info);
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ode, dasrt, impl, fort, link, external

