.TH ode G "February 1998" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an 
.SH NAME
ode - ordinary differential equation solver
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
y=ode(y0,t0,t,f)
[y,w,iw]=ode([type],y0,t0,t [,rtol [,atol]],f [,jac] [,w,iw])
[y,rd,w,iw]=ode("root",y0,t0,t [,rtol [,atol]],f  [,jac],ng,g [,w,iw])
y=ode("discrete",y0,k0,kvect,f)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
y0 
: real vector or matrix (initial conditions).
.TP
t0
: real scalar (initial time).
.TP
t
: real vector (times at which the solution is computed).
.TP
f
: external (function or character string or list).
.TP
type 
: one of the following character string:
\fV"adams" "stiff" "rk" "rkf" "fix" "discrete" "roots"\fR
.TP
rtol,atol 
: real constants or real vectors of the same size as \fVy\fR.
.TP
jac 
: external (function or character string or list).
.TP
w,iw 
: real vectors.
.TP
ng 
: integer.
.TP
g 
: external (function or character string or list).
.TP
k0
: integer (initial time).
kvect
: integer vector.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fVode\fR is the standard function for solving explicit ODE systems
defined by:
.LP
 dy/dt=f(t,y) , y(t0)=y0.
.LP
It is an interface to various solvers, in particular to ODEPACK.
The type of problem solved and the method used depend on the value of
the first optional argument \fVtype\fR which can be one of the
following strings:
.TP 13
<not given>: 
\fVlsoda\fR solver of package ODEPACK is called by default. It automatically
selects between nonstiff predictor-corrector Adams method and
stiff Backward Differentiation Formula (BDF) method. It uses
nonstiff method initially and dynamically 
monitors data in order to decide which method to use.
.TP 9
"adams": 
This is for nonstiff problems. \fVlsode\fR
solver of package ODEPACK is called and it uses the Adams method.
.TP 9
"stiff": 
This is for stiff problems. \fVlsode\fR
solver of package ODEPACK is called and it uses the BDF method.
.TP 6
"rk": 
Adaptive Runge-Kutta of order 4 (RK4) method.
.TP 7
"rkf": 
The Shampine and Watts program based on Fehlberg's
Runge-Kutta pair of order 4 and 5 (RKF45) method is
used. This is for non-stiff and mildly stiff problems when
derivative evaluations are inexpensive.  This method should
generally not be used when the user is demanding high accuracy.
.TP 7
"fix": 
Same solver as "rkf", but the
user interface is very simple, i.e. only \fVrtol\fR and \fVatol\fR 
parameters can be passed to the solver. This is the
simplest method to try.
.TP 9
"root": 
ODE solver with rootfinding capabilities. 
The \fVlsodar\fR solver of package ODEPACK is used. It is a variant of the
\fVlsoda\fR solver where it finds the roots of a given
vector function. See help on ode_root for more details.
.TP 12
"discrete": 
Discrete time simulation. See help on ode_discrete for more details.
.RE
In this help we only describe the use of \fVode\fR for standard
explicit ODE systems.

The simplest call of \fVode\fR is:
\fVy=ode(y0,t0,t,f)\fR
where \fVy0\fR is the vector of initial conditions, \fVt0\fR is the
initial time, \fVt\fR is the vector of times at which the solution 
\fVy\fR is computed and \fVy\fR is the solution vector 
\fVy=[y(t(1)),y(t(2)),...]\fR.

The input \fVf\fR to \fVode\fR is an external i.e. a function with
specified syntax, or the name of a Fortran subroutine or a C function 
(character string) with specified calling sequence or a list.
.LP
If \fVf\fR is a function, its syntax must be as follows:
.nf
ydot = f(t,y)
.fi
where \fVt\fR is a real scalar (time) and \fVy\fR a real vector (state).
This function is the RHS of the differential equation dy/dt=f(t,y).

If \fVf\fR is a character string, it refers to the name of a Fortran
subroutine or a C function, i.e. if \fVode(y0,t0,t,"fex")\fR is the
command, then the subroutine \fVfex\fR is called. 
This routine must have the following calling
sequence: \fVf(n,t,y,ydot)\fR. It can be dynamically linked to Scilab
by the \fVlink\fR function. Examples of such programs can be seen in
the files \fVSCIDIR/routines/default/README\fR and 
\fVSCIDIR/routines/default/Ex-ode.f\fR.

The \fVf\fR argument can also be a list:
if \fVode(y0,t0,t,lst)\fR
is the command, then \fVlst\fR must be a list with the following
structure:
.nf
lst=list(f,u1,u2,...un)
.fi
where \fVf\fR is a function with syntax:
.nf
ydot = f(t,y,u1,u2,...,un)
.fi
this allows to use parameters as the arguments of \fVf\fR.

The function \fVf\fR can return a \fVp x q\fR matrix instead of a vector. 
With this matrix notation, we solve the \fVn=p+q\fR ODE's 
system \fVdY/dt=F(t,Y)\fR where \fVY\fR is a \fVp x q\fR matrix.
Then initial conditions, \fVY0\fR, must also be
a \fVp x q\fR matrix and the result of \fVode\fR is the
\fVp x q(T+1)\fR matrix \fV[Y(t_0),Y(t_1),...,Y(t_T)]\fR.

Optional parameters can be given for the error of the solution:
\fVrtol\fR and \fVatol\fR 
are threshold for relative and absolute estimated errors. 
The estimated error on \fVy(i)\fR is:
.nf
rtol(i)*abs(y(i))+atol(i)
.fi
and integration is carried out as far as this error is small
for all components of the state.
If \fVrtol\fR and/or \fVatol\fR is a constant \fVrtol(i)\fR and/or 
\fVatol(i)\fR are
set to this constant value. Default values for \fVrtol\fR and \fVatol\fR
are respectively \fVrtol=1.d-5\fR and \fVatol=1.d-7\fR for most
solvers and \fVrtol=1.d-3\fR and \fVatol=1.d-4\fR for \fV"rfk"\fR and 
\fV"fix"\fR.

For stiff problems, it is better to give the Jacobian of the RHS
function as the optional argument \fVjac\fR.
It is an external i.e. a function with
specified syntax, or the name of a Fortran subroutine or a C function 
(character string) with specified calling sequence or a list.
.LP
If \fVjac\fR is a function the syntax should be as follows:
.nf
J=jac(t,y)
.fi
where \fVt\fR is a real scalar (time) and \fVy\fR a real vector (state).
The result matrix \fVJ\fR must evaluate to df/dx i.e. 
\fVJ(k,i) = dfk /dxi\fR with \fVfk\fR = kth component of f.
.LP
If \fVjac\fR is a character string it refers to the name of a Fortran
subroutine or a C function, with the following calling sequence: 
\fVjac(n,t,y,ml,mu,J,nrpd)\fR. In most cases you have not to refer \fVml\fR,
\fVmu\fR and \fVnrpd\fR (see source code in 
\fVSCIDIR/routines/default/Ex-ode.f\fR for an example).
.LP
If \fVjac\fR is a list the same conventions as for \fVf\fR apply.

Optional arguments \fVw\fR and \fViw\fR  are 
vectors for storing information returned by the
integration routine. When these vectors are provided in RHS
of \fVode\fR the integration re-starts with the same  parameters as
in its previous stop.

More options can be given to ODEPACK solvers by using
\fV%ODEOPTIONS\fR variable. See odeoptions help.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
// Simple one dimension ODE
// dy/dt=y^2-y sin(t)+cos(t), y(0)=0
deff("[ydot]=f(t,y)","ydot=y^2-y*sin(t)+cos(t)")
y0=0;t0=0;t=0:0.1:%pi;
y=ode(y0,t0,t,f)
plot(t,y)
// Simulation of dx/dt = A x(t) + B u(t) with u(t)=sin(omega*t),
// x0=[1;0]
// solution x(t) desired at t=0.1, 0.2, 0.5 ,1.
// A and u function are passed to RHS function in a list. 
// B and omega are passed as global variables
deff("[xdot]=linear(t,x,A,u)","xdot=A*x+B*u(t)")
deff("[ut]=u(t)","ut=sin(omega*t)")
A=[1 1;0 2];B=[1;1];omega=5;
ode([1;0],0,[0.1,0.2,0.5,1],list(linear,A,u))
//
// Matrix notation
// Integration of the Riccati differential equation
// Xdot=A'*X + X*A - X'*B*X + C , X(0)=Identity
// Solution at t=[1,2] 
deff("[Xdot]=ric(t,X)","Xdot=A''*X+X*A-X''*B*X+C")   
A=[1,1;0,2]; B=[1,0;0,1]; C=[1,0;0,1];
t0=0;t=0:0.1:%pi;
X=ode(eye(A),0,t,ric)
//
// Computation of exp(A)
A=[1,1;0,2];
deff("[xdot]=f(t,x)","xdot=A*x");
ode(eye(A),0,1,f)
ode("adams",eye(A),0,1,f)
// with stiff matrix, Jacobian given
A=[10,0;0,-1];
deff("[xdot]=f(t,x)","xdot=A*x");
deff("[J]=Jacobian(t,y)","J=A")
ode("stiff",[0;1],0,1,f,Jacobian)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ode_discrete, ode_root, dassl, impl, odedc, odeoptions, csim, ltitr, rtitr
