.TH GENERIC_f 5 "Janvier 1996" "Scilab Group" "Scicos Block"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
GENERIC_f - Scicos generic interfacing function
.SH DESCRIPTION
This block can realize any type of block. The computational function
must already be defined in Scilab, Fortran or C code.
.SH DIALOGUE PARAMETERS
.TP 15
simulation function
: a character string, the name of the computational  function
.TP 15
function type
: a non negative integer, the type of the computational  function
.TP 
input port sizes
: a vector of integers, size of regular input ports.
.TP 
output port sizes
: a vector of integers, size of regular output ports.
.TP 
input event port sizes
: a vector of ones, size of event input ports. The size of the vector
gives the number of event input ports.
.TP 
output event port sizes
: a vector of ones, size of event output ports. The size of the vector
gives the number of of event output ports.
.TP
Initial continuous state
: a column vector.
.TP
Initial discrete state
: a column vector.
.TP
System type
: a string: c,d, z or l (CBB, DBB, zero crossing or synchro).
.TP
Real parameter vector
: column vector. Any parameters used in the block can be defined here
as a column vector.
.TP
Integer parameter vector
: column vector. Any integer parameters used in the block can be defined here
as a column vector.
.TP
initial firing
: vector. Size of this vector corresponds to the number of event
outputs. The value of the i-th entry specifies the time of the
preprogrammed event firing on the i-th output event port. If less than
zero, no event is preprogrammed.
.TP
direct feedthrough
: character "y" or "n", specifies if block has a direct input to
output feedthrough.
.TP
Time dependance
: character "y" or "n", specifies if block output depends explicitly
on time.
.SH SEE ALSO
scifunc_block





