.TH scicos_model  "Janvier 1997" "Scilab Group" "Scicos data structure"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
scicos_model - Scicos block functionality  data structure
.SH DEFINITION
.nf
model=list(sim,in,out,evtin,evtout,state,dstate,..
      rpar,ipar,blocktype,firing,dep_ut,label,import,ID)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 15
sim
: list(fun,typ) or fun. In the latest case typ is supposed to be 0.
.RS
.TP 10
fun
: character string, the name of the block simulation function (a 
linked C or Fortran procedure  or a Scilab function).
.TP
typ
: integer, calling sequence type of simulation function (see
documentation for more precision).
.RE
.TP
in
: column vector of integers, input port sizes indexed from top to
bottom of the block. If no input port exist \fVin==[]\fR.
.TP
out
: column vector of integers, output port sizes indexed from top to
bottom of the block. If no output port exist \fVin==[]\fR.
.TP
evtin
: column vector of ones, the size of \fVevtin\fR gives the number of
event input ports. If no event input port exists \fVevtin\fR must be equal
to \fV[]\fR.
.TP
evtout
: column vector of ones, the size of \fVevtout\fR gives the number of
event output ports. If no event output port exists \fVevtout\fR must be equal
to \fV[]\fR.
.TP
state
: column vector, the initial continuous state of the block. Must be
\fV[]\fR if no continuous state.
.TP
dstate
: column vector, the initial discrete state of the block. Must be
\fV[]\fR if no discrete state.
.TP
rpar
: column vector, the vector of floating point block parameters. Must be
\fV[]\fR if no floating point parameters.
.TP
ipar
: column vector, the vector of integer  block parameters. Must be
\fV[]\fR if no integer parameters.
.TP
blocktype
: a character with possible values:
.RS
.TP
:
'c'  block output depend continuously of the time.
.TP
:
'd' block output changes only on input events.
.TP
:
'z' zero crossing block
.TP
:
'l' logical block
.RE
.TP
firing
: a vector whose size is equal to the size of \fVevtout\fR> It contains
output initial event dates (Events generated before any input event
arises). Negative values stands for no initial event on the
corresponding port.
.TP
dep_ut
: 1x 2 vector of boolean \fV[dep_u, dep_t]\fR, \fVdep_u\fR must be
true if output depends continuously of the input, \fVdep_t\fR must be
true if output depends continuously of the time.
.TP
label
: a character string, used as a label
.TP
import
: Unused.
.TP
ID
: a character string, used as an identifier. 

.TP
model
: Scilab list, Scicos block model data structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Scicos block model data structure contains all information relative
to the simulation functionality of the block. Fields may be
fixed by block definition or set. 

If block is a super block, the fields
\fVstate\fR,\fVdstate\fR,\fVipar\fR,\fVblocktype\fR,\fVfiring\fR,
\fVdep_ut\fR, are unused. 

The \fVrpar\fR field contains a
data structure similar to the \fVscicos_main\fR data structure.


.SH SEE ALSO
scicos,  scicos_model, scicos_main 







