.TH SCOPE_f 5 "Janvier 1996" "Scilab Group" "Scicos Block"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
SCOPE_f - Scicos visualization block
.SH DESCRIPTION
This block realizes the visualization of the evolution of the signals
on the standard input port(s) at instants of events on the event
input port.
.SH DIALOGUE PARAMETERS
.TP 20
Curve colors
: a vector of integers. The i-th element is the color number (>0)
or dash type (<0) used to draw the evolution of the i-th 
input port signal. See \fVplot2d\fR for color (dash type) definitions.
.TP
Output window number
: The number of graphic window used for the display. It is often good
to use high values to avoid conflict with palettes and Super Block
windows. If you have more than one scope, make sure they don't have
the same window numbers (unless superposition of the curves is
desired).
.TP
Output window position
: a 2 vector specifying the coordinates of the upper left corner of
the graphic window. Answer [] for default window position.
.TP
Output window size
: a 2 vector specifying the width and height  of 
the graphic window. Answer [] for default window dimensions.
.TP
Ymin, Ymax
: Minimum and maximum values of the input; used to set up the Y-axis
of the plot in the graphics window.
.TP
Refresh period
: Maximum value on the X-axis (time). The plot is redrawn when time
reaches a multiple of this value.
.TP
Buffer size
: To improve efficiency it is possible to buffer the input data. The
drawing is only done after each \fVBuffer size\fR call to the block.
.TP
Accept herited events
: if 0 \fVSCOPE_f\fR draws a new point only when an event occurs on its
event input port. if 1 \fVSCOPE_f\fR draws a new point when an event occurs
on its event input port and when it's regular input changes due to
an event on an other upstrem block (herited events).

.SH REMARKS
Output window number, Output window size, Output window
position are only taken into account at the initialisation time of the
simulation. 

.SH SEE ALSO
SCOPXY_f, EVENTSCOPE_f, ANIMXY_f




