.TH WRITEC_f 5 "Janvier 1999" "Scilab Group" "Scicos Block"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
WRITEC_f - Scicos "write to C binary file" block 
.SH DIALOGUE PARAMETERS
.TP 20
Input size
: a scalar, the size of the input
.TP
Output file name
: a character string defining the path of the file 
.TP
Output Format
: a character string defining the  format to use 
.RS
.TP 13
"l","s","ul","us","d","f","c","uc"
: for reading  respectively  long, ashort, unsigned
long,  unsigned short, double,  float,  char and  unsigned
char. If required by the \fVswap mode\fR, the bytes which are
read are automatically swapped if necessary (by checking
little-endian status) in order to produce machine independent binary
files ( in little-endian mode).
.TP
"ull","uls","ubl","ubs",
: can be used for reading respectively unsigned little-endian long or
short and unsigned big-endian long or short. 
.TP
"dx","fx","lx","sx"
: with \fVx=b\fR or \fVx=l\fR can be used for reading
double, float, long or short as big or little endian.
.RE
.TP
Buffer size
: To improve efficiency it is possible to buffer the input data. read
on the file is only done after each \fVBuffer size\fR call to the
block. 
.TP
Swap mode 
: With \fVSwap mode=1\fR  the file is supposed to
be coded in "little endian IEEE format" and data are swaped if
necessary to match the IEEE format of the processor. If \fVSwap mode=0\fR  then automatic bytes swap is disabled.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This block allows user to write datas in a C binary file.  

.SH SEE ALSO
READC_f, mput









