.TH plotframe 2 "October 1994" "Scilab" ""
.so man1/sci.an
.SH NAME
plotframe - graphic frame with scaling and grids
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
plotframe(rect,tics,flags,captions)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
rect
:
vector \fV[xmin,ymin,xmax,ymax]\fR made of x and y bounds.
.TP
tics
:
vector \fV[nx,mx,ny,my]\fR where \fVmx, nx\fR (resp. \fVmy, ny\fR) are
the number of x-axis (resp. y-axis) intervals and subintervals.
.TP
flags
:
vector \fV[wantgrids,findbounds]\fR where \fVwantgrids\fR is a boolean
variable (\fV%t\fR or \fV%f\fR) which indicates gridding.
\fVfindbounds\fR is a boolean variable. If \fVfindbounds\fR is \fV%t\fR,
the bounds given in \fVrect\fR are allowed to be slightly modified
in order to have simpler graduations (then \fVtics(2),tics(4)\fR are ignored).
.TP
captions
vector of 3 character strings \fV[title, x-leg, y-leg]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used with plotting functions \fVplot2d\fR,
\fVplot2d1\fR,... to set a graphic frame. This function is
used before \fVplot2d...\fR which should be invoked with
the "000" superposition mode.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
x=[-0.3:0.8:27.3]';
y=rand(x);
rect=[min(x),min(y),max(x),max(y)];
tics=[4,10,2,5];    //4 x-intervals and 2 y-intervals
xbasc();xbasc(1);xset("window",1);xselect();
plotframe(rect,tics,[%f,%f],['My plot','x','y']);
plot2d(x,y,-1,'000')
xbasc(2);xset("window",2);xselect();
plotframe(rect,tics,[%t,%f],['My plot with grids','x','y']);
plot2d(x,y,-1,'000')
xbasc(3);xset("window",3);xselect();
plotframe(rect,tics,[%t,%t],...
['My plot with grids and automatic bounds','x','y']);
plot2d(x,y,-1,'000')
xbasc(4);xset("window",4);xselect();
plotframe(rect,tics,[%f,%t],...
['My plot without grids but with automatic bounds','x','y']);
plot2d(x,y,-1,'000')
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
plot2d, graduate, xtitle, plot2d1, plot2d2

