.TH corr G "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
corr - correlation, covariance
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[cov,Mean]=corr(x,[y],nlags)
[cov,Mean]=corr('fft',xmacro,[ymacro],n,sect)

[w,xu]=corr('updt',x1,[y1],w0)
[w,xu]=corr('updt',x2,[y2],w,xu)
 ...
[wk]=corr('updt',xk,[yk],w,xu)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
x
: a real vector
.TP
y
: a real vector, default value x.
.TP
nlags
: integer, number of correlation coefficients desired.
.TP
xmacro
: a scilab external (see below).
.TP
ymacro
: a scilab external (see below), default value xmacro
.TP
n
: an integer, total size of the sequence (see below).
.TP
sect
: size of sections of the sequence (see below).
.TP
xi
: a real vector
.TP
yi
: a real vector,default value xi.
.TP
cov
: real vector, the correlation coefficients 
.TP
Mean
: real number or vector,  the mean of x and if given y

.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes
.nf
                n - m 
                 ====
                 \\                                                 1
        cov(m) =  >        (x(k)  - xmean) (y(m+k)      - ymean) * ---
                 /                                                  n
                 ====
                 k = 1
.fi
.LA $$         cov(m) = 1/n \sum_1^{n-m} (x(k)  - E(x)) (y(m+k) - E(y)) $$
for   m=0,..,\fVnlag-1\fR and two vectors \fVx=[x(1),..,x(n)]\fR
 \fVy=[y(1),..,y(n)]\fR
.LP
Note that if x and y sequences are differents corr(x,y,...) is
different with corr(y,x,...)
.LP
Short sequences:
.LP
.Vb [cov,Mean]=corr(x,[y],nlags)
returns the first nlags
correlation coefficients and Mean = \fVmean(x)\fR
(mean of \fV[x,y]\fR if \fVy\fR is an argument).
The sequence \fVx\fR (resp. \fVy\fR) is assumed real, and \fVx\fR 
and \fVy\fR are of same dimension n.
.LP
Long sequences:
.LP
.Vb [cov,Mean]=corr('fft',xmacro,[ymacro],n,sect)
.LP
Here \fVxmacro\fR is either
.TP
-
a function of type \fV[xx]=xmacro(sect,istart)\fR which returns
a vector \fVxx\fR of dimension \fVnsect\fR containing the part of the
sequence with indices from \fVistart\fR to \fVistart+sect-1\fR.
.TP
-
a fortran subroutine which performs the same calculation.
(See the source code of \fVdgetx\fR for an example).
\fVn\fR = total size of the sequence.
\fVsect\fR = size of sections of the sequence. \fVsect\fR must be a power
of 2. \fVcov\fR has dimension \fVsect\fR. Calculation is performed by FFT.
.LP
"Updating method":
.nf
[w,xu]=corr('updt',x1,[y1],w0)
[w,xu]=corr('updt',x2,[y2],w,xu)
 ...
wk=corr('updt',xk,[yk],w,xu)
.fi
With this calling sequence the calculation is updated at each
call to \fVcorr\fR.
.nf
w0 = 0*ones(1,2*nlags);
nlags = power of 2.
.fi
\fVx1,x2,...\fR are parts of \fVx\fR such that \fVx=[x1,x2,...]\fR and sizes
of \fVxi\fR a power of 2.
To get \fVnlags\fR coefficients a final fft must be performed
\fVc=fft(w,1)/n\fR; \fVcov=c(1nlags)\fR (\fVn\fR is the size of \fVx (y)\fR).
Caution: this calling sequence assumes that \fVxmean = ymean = 0\fR.
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
x=%pi/10:%pi/10:102.4*%pi;
rand('seed');rand('normal');
y=[.8*sin(x)+.8*sin(2*x)+rand(x);.8*sin(x)+.8*sin(1.99*x)+rand(x)];
c=[];
for j=1:2,for k=1:2,c=[c;corr(y(k,:),y(j,:),64)];end;end;
c=matrix(c,2,128);cov=[];
for j=1:64,cov=[cov;c(:,(j-1)*2+1:2*j)];end;
rand('unif')
//
rand('normal');x=rand(1,256);y=-x;
deff('[z]=xx(inc,is)','z=x(is:is+inc-1)');
deff('[z]=yy(inc,is)','z=y(is:is+inc-1)');
[c,mxy]=corr(x,y,32);
x=x-mxy(1)*ones(x);y=y-mxy(2)*ones(y);  //centring
c1=corr(x,y,32);c2=corr(x,32);
norm(c1+c2,1)
[c3,m3]=corr('fft',xx,yy,256,32);
norm(c1-c3,1)
[c4,m4]=corr('fft',xx,256,32);
norm(m3,1),norm(m4,1)
norm(c3-c1,1),norm(c4-c2,1)
x1=x(1:128);x2=x(129:256);
y1=y(1:128);y2=y(129:256);
w0=0*ones(1:64);   //32 coeffs
[w1,xu]=corr('u',x1,y1,w0);w2=corr('u',x2,y2,w1,xu);
zz=real(fft(w2,1))/256;c5=zz(1:32);
norm(c5-c1,1)
[w1,xu]=corr('u',x1,w0);w2=corr('u',x2,w1,xu);
zz=real(fft(w2,1))/256;c6=zz(1:32);
norm(c6-c2,1)
rand('unif')
// test for Fortran or C external 
//
deff('[y]=xmacro(sec,ist)','y=sin(ist:(ist+sec-1))');
x=xmacro(100,1);
[cc1,mm1]=corr(x,2^3);
[cc,mm]=corr('fft',xmacro,100,2^3);
[cc2,mm2]=corr('fft','corexx',100,2^3);
[maxi(abs(cc-cc1)),maxi(abs(mm-mm1)),maxi(abs(cc-cc2)),maxi(abs(mm-mm2))]

deff('[y]=ymacro(sec,ist)','y=cos(ist:(ist+sec-1))');
y=ymacro(100,1);
[cc1,mm1]=corr(x,y,2^3);
[cc,mm]=corr('fft',xmacro,ymacro,100,2^3);
[cc2,mm2]=corr('fft','corexx','corexy',100,2^3);
[maxi(abs(cc-cc1)),maxi(abs(mm-mm1)),maxi(abs(cc-cc2)),maxi(abs(mm-mm2))]

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
fft
