.TH plotframe 2 "October 1994" "Scilab" ""
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
plotframe - plot a frame with scaling and grids
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
plotframe(rect,tics,[arg_opt1,arg_opt2,arg_opt3])
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
rect
:
vector \fV[xmin,ymin,xmax,ymax]\fR.
.TP
tics
:
vector \fV[nx,mx,ny,my]\fR where \fVmx, nx\fR (resp. \fVmy, ny\fR) are
the number of x-axis (resp. y-axis) intervals and subintervals.
.TP
arg_optX 
: optional arguments up to three and choosen among.
.RS
.TP 8
flags
:
vector \fV[wantgrids,findbounds]\fR where \fVwantgrids\fR is a boolean
variable (\fV%t\fR or \fV%f\fR) which indicates gridding.
\fVfindbounds\fR is a boolean variable. If \fVfindbounds\fR is \fV%t\fR,
the bounds given in \fVrect\fR are allowed to be slightly modified 
(in fact always increased)
in order to have simpler graduations: then \fVtics(2)\fR and 
\fVtics(4)\fR are ignored.
.TP
captions
: vector of 3 strings \fV[title,x-leg,y-leg]\fR
corresponding respectively to the title of the plot and the captions
on the x-axis and the y-axis.
.TP
subwin
: a vector of size 4 defining the sub window.
The sub window is specified with the 
parameter \fVsubwin=[x,y,w,h]\fR (upper-left, width, height). 
The values in \fVsubwin\fR are specified using proportion of the width 
or height of the current graphics window (see \fVxsetech\fR).
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fVplotframe\fR is used with 2D plotting functions \fVplot2d\fR,
\fVplot2d1\fR,... to set a graphics frame. It must be
used before \fVplot2d\fR which should be invoked with
the "000" superposition mode.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
x=[-0.3:0.8:27.3]';
y=rand(x);
rect=[min(x),min(y),max(x),max(y)];
tics=[4,10,2,5];    //4 x-intervals and 2 y-intervals
plotframe(rect,tics,[%f,%f],["My plot","x","y"],[0,0,0.5,0.5])
plot2d(x,y,2,"000")
plotframe(rect,tics,[%t,%f],["My plot with grids","x","y"],[0.5,0,0.5,0.5])
plot2d(x,y,3,"000")
plotframe(rect,tics,[%t,%t],..
["My plot with grids and automatic bounds","x","y"],[0,0.5,0.5,0.5])
plot2d(x,y,4,"000")
plotframe(rect,tics,[%f,%t],..
	["My plot without grids but with automatic bounds","x","y"],..
	[0.5,0.5,0.5,0.5])
plot2d(x,y,5,"000")
xset("default")
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
plot2d, graduate, xsetech
