.TH rand 1 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
rand - random number generator
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
rand(m1,m2,.. [,key])
rand(x [, key])
rand()

rand(key)
rand("seed" [,n])
rand("info")

.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 3
mi
: integers
.TP
key
:
character string with value in \fV"uniform"\fR, \fV"normal"\fR
.TP
x
: a matrix. Only its dimensions are taken into account.

.SH DESCRIPTION
random matrix generator.

Without key argument the syntaxes below produce  random matrices with
the current random generator (default is "uniform")
.TP 20
rand(m1,m2) 
is a random matrix of dimension \fVm1\fR by \fVm2\fR.
.TP
rand(m1,m2,..,mn) 
is a random matrix of dimension \fVm1\fR by \fVm2\fR,.. by \fVmn\fR.
.TP
rand(a) 
is a random matrix of same size as a. \fVrand(a)\fR is complex if 
\fVa\fR is a complex matrix
.TP
\fVrand()\fR : with no arguments gives a scalar whose value changes 
each time it is referenced.
.RE
.LP
If present, the key argument allows to specifie an other random
generator.
.TP 20 
rand('uniform') 
The current random generator is set to a uniform random number
generator. Random numbers are uniformly distributed in the interval
(0,1).

.TP
rand('normal') 
The current random generator is set to a Gaussian (with mean 0 and
variance 1) random number generator . 
.TP
str=rand('info')
return the type of the default random generator ('uniform' or 'normal')
.RE
IT is possible to (re-)initialize the seed of the rand generator:
.TP 20
rand('seed') 
returns the current value of the seed.
.TP
rand('seed',n)  
puts the seed to \fVn\fR. (\fVn=0\fR at first call).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
x=rand(10,10,'uniform')
rand('normal')
rand('info')
y=rand(x,'normal');
x=rand(2,2,2)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ssrand




