.TH intppty 1 "Nov 1999" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
intppty - set interface argument passing properties 
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
funs=intppty()
intppty(fun)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
fun
: integer an interface number (see funptr)
.TP 10
funs
: integer vector, vector of interface number (see funptr)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The interface programs may be written in 2 different ways for the mode
of function argument passing.
.LP
In the first and default way, the arguments are passed by value.
With the following syntax:
.nf
foo(A,1+2)
.fi
the argument associated with \fVA\fR will be passed by value (a copy
of \fVA\fR is made before \fVfoo\fR is called, and
the argument associated with \fV1+2\fR will be passed by value.
.LP

In
the second way arguments may be passed be reference if there are
"named arguments" (no copy of the variable value is
done). \fVintppty(fun)\fR with \fVfun>0\fR tells Scilab that the
interface with number \fVfun\fR can handle arguments passed by
reference. With the following syntax:
.nf
foo(A,1+2)
.fi
the argument associated with \fVA\fR will be passed by reference, and
the argument associated with \fV1+2\fR will be passed by value.
.LP
Warning, declaring that the interface with number
\fVfun\fR can handle arguments passed by reference if it is not the
case should produce unpredictable results.
.LP
\fVintppty(fun)\fR with \fVfun<0\fR suppress this property
for the interface \fV-fun\fR.
.LP
\fVintppty()\fR returns the vector of interfaces which handle
arguments passed by reference.
.LP
This function may be useful for dynamically loaded interface (see
addinter).
.SH SEE ALSO
funptr, addinter
