.TH overloading 1 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab keyword"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
overloading - display, functions and operators overloading capabilities
.SH DESCRIPTION
In scilab, variable display, functions and operators may be defined
for new objects using  functions (scilab coded or primitives).
.TP 15
Display 
: The display of new objects defined by \fVtlist\fR structure
may be overloaded (the default display is similar to \fVlist\fR's
one). The overloading function must have no output argument a single
input argument. It's name is formed as follow \fV%<tlist_type>_p\fR
where \fV%<tlist_type>\fR stands for the first entry of the
\fVtlist\fR type component.
.TP
Operators
: Each operator which is not defined for given operands type may be
defined. The overloading function must have a single output argument
and one or two inputs according to the number of operands. The
function name is formed as follow:
.LP
for binary operators:
\fV%<first_operand_type>_<op_code>_<second_operand_type>\fR
.LP
for unary operators:
\fV%<operand_type>_<op_code>\fR
.LP
extraction and insertion operators which are n-nary operators are
described below.
.LP
\fV<operand_type>\fR, \fV<first_operand_type>\fR,
\fV<second_operand_type>\fR  are sequence of characters associated
with each data type as described in the following table:
.IG
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
string@c
polynomial@p
function@m
constant@s
list@l
tlist@<tlist_type>
boolean@b
sparse@sp
boolean sparse@spb
.TE
.FI
\" This is for LaTeX 
.LA  
.LA  \begin{tabular}{|l|l|} \hfill
.LA  string&c\\ \hfill
.LA  polynomial&p\\ \hfill
.LA  function&m\\ \hfill
.LA  constant&s\\ \hfill
.LA  list&l\\ \hfill
.LA  tlist&<tlist\_type>\\ \hfill
.LA  boolean&b\\ \hfill
.LA  sparse&sp\\ \hfill
.LA  boolean sparse&spb\\ \hfill
.LA  \end{tabular}
.LA 
\fV<op_code>\fR is a single character associated with each operator as
described in the following table:
.IG
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
 \fV'\fR@t
 \fV+\fR@a
 \fV-\fR@s
 \fV*\fR@m
 \fV/\fR@r
 \fV\\\fR@l
 \fV^\fR@p
 \fV.*\fR@x
 \fV./\fR@d
 \fV.\\\fR@q
 \fV.*.\fR@k
 \fV./.\fR@y
 \fV.\\.\fR@z
 \fV:\fR@b
 \fV*.\fR@u
 \fV/.\fR@v
 \fV\\.\fR@w
 \fV[a,b]\fR@c
 \fV[a;b]\fR@f
 \fV()\fR extraction@e
 \fV()\fR insertion@i
 \fV==\fR@o
 \fV<>\fR@n
 \fV|\fR@g
 \fV&\fR@h
 \fV.^\fR@j
 \fV~\fR@5
 \fV.'\fR@0
 \fV<\fR@1
 \fV>\fR@2
 \fV<=\fR@3
 \fV>=\fR@4
.TE
.FI
\" This is for LaTeX 
.LA
.LA \begin{tabular}{|l|l|}
.LA {\tt  '}  & t\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  +}  & a\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  -}  & s\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  *}  & m\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  /}  & r\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  \bs }  & l\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  \^{}}  & p\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  .*}  & x\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  ./}  & d\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  .\bs }  & q\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  .*.}  & k\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  ./.}  & y\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  .}  & z\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  :}  & b\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  *.}  & u\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  /.}  & v\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  \bs . }  & w\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt [a,b] }  & c\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt [a;b] }  & f\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt () } extraction  & e\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt () } insertion  & i\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  ==}  & o\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  $<$$>$}  & n\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  $|$}  & g\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  \&}  & h\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  .\^{}}  & j\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  \~{}}  & 5\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  .'}  & 0\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  <}  & 1\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  >}  & 2\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  <=}  & 3\\ \hfill
.LA {\tt  >=}  & 4\\ \hfill
.LA \end{tabular}
.LA 
The overloading function for extraction syntax \fVb=a(i1,...,in)\fR
has the following calling sequence: \fVb=%<type_of_a>_e_(i1,...,in,a)\fR

and the syntax
\fV[x1,..,xm]=a(i1,...,in)\fR has the following calling sequence: 
\fV[x1,..,xm]=%<type_of_a>_e_(i1,...,in,a)\fR
.LP
The overloading function associated to the insertion syntax
\fVa(i1,...,in)=b\fR  has the following calling sequence: 
\fVa=%<type_of_a>_i_<type_of_b>(i1,...,in,b,a)\fR.

.TP
Functions : Some basic primitive function may also be overloaded for new data type. When
such a function is undefined for a particular data types the function
\fV%<type_of_an_argument>_<function_name> is called. User may add in
this called function the definition associated with the input data
types.
.SH SEE ALSO
tlist, disp, symbols
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
//DISPLAY
deff('[]=%tab_p(l)','disp([['' '';l(3)] [l(2);string(l(4))]])')
tlist('tab',['a','b'],['x';'y'],rand(2,2))

//OPERATOR
deff('x=%c_a_s(a,b)','x=a+string(b)')
's'+1

//FUNCTION
deff('x=%c_sin(a)','x=''sin(''+a+'')''')
sin('2*x')
.fi

