.TH link 1 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so man1/sci.an
.SH NAME
link - dynamic link
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
link(files, sub-name)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
links (dynamically) a compiled C or Fortran routine to Scilab.
With no arguments \fVlink()\fR returns the vectors of linked routines.
Available for SUN (Sun OS), RS6000, (DEC Mips) and HP workstations with the 
"static" option for the compilation of Scilab (this is the case of the 
compiled distributed versions).
For RS6000 only one program can be dynamically linked (this program can be 
modified and re-linked). This restriction can be avoided by having the linked
program call other programs.
For DEC Mips currently it does not always work.
Available for DEC Alpha, SUN Solaris 5.* and SGI Irix 5.2 (all are SystemV 
machines) : in this case Scilab may be compiled with the "static" or "shared" 
option ; with the "static" option (this is the case of the compiled 
distributed versions of Scilab) you must include the needed libraries in the 
"link" command.
The call of the added program (C or fortran) is done with the Scilab command 
"fort".
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
link('foo.o','foo').
link('foo.o -lm -lc','foo').
link('foo.o -lfor -lm -lc','foo').
link('foo.o -lftn -lm -lc','foo').
link('foo.o -L/opt/SUNWspro/SC3.0/lib/lib77 -lm -lc','foo').
.fi
\fVfoo.o\fR is the file of the object code and \fVfoo\fR is the name of the 
fortran or C routine.
The previous examples are respectively the non-systemV case, the general case
for the C routines and examples for DEC Alpha, SGI and SUN Solaris.
With Scilab compiled with the "shared" option the first example can be use :
in this case you will have a warning for unresolved references but the linked 
program will work.
.SH REMARK 
You may have some trouble with the link in the demos using this command due to
the differences of the systems (the demos needing the link command do
not work with the compiled version of Scilab for the SystemV machines
because the link needs the libraries. You can modify the demo by
adding the libraries in the link command for your machine and the demo
will work). This fact does not affect the behaviour of the "complete"
command in any case.
.SH SEE ALSO
fort,c_link

