.TH xset 2 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so man1/sci.an
.SH NAME
xset - set values of the graphic context
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[]=xset(choice-name,x1,x2,x3,x4,x5)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
choice-name
: string
.TP 15
x1,...,x5
: depending on \fVchoice-name\fR
.TP
xset("alufunction",number)
: used to set the logical function for drawing, it works only under X11.
The logical function used is set by \fVx1\fR. The default value is 3.
.RS
.TP
 0
: function  " 0 ",
.TP
 1
: function " src AND dst "
.TP
 2
: function " src AND NOT dst "
.TP
 3
: function " src ",
.TP
 4
: function " NOT src AND dst "
.TP
 5
: function " dst ",
.TP
 6
: function " src XOR dst ",
.TP
 7
: function " src OR dst ",
.TP
 8
: function " NOT src AND NOT dst ",
.TP
 9
: function " NOT src XOR dst ",
.TP
10
: function " NOT dst ",

.TP
11
: function " src OR NOT dst ",
.TP
12
: function " NOT src ",
.TP
13
: function " NOT src OR dst ",
.TP
14
: function " NOT src OR NOT dst ",
.TP
15
: function " 1 ";
.RE
.TP
xset("clipping",x,y,w,h) 
:  set the clipping
zone to the rectange (x,y,w,h) (Upper-Left point Width Height).
This function uses the current scale
.TP
xset("default")
: reset the graphic context to default values
.TP
xset("dashes",i)
: set the dashstyle to style i (0 for solid line)
.TP
xset("font",fontid,fontsize)
: to fix the current font and its current size.
.TP
xset("line mode",type);
This function is used to fix the line drawing mode. Absolute mode is fixed withtype=1 an relative mode with type=0. (Warning : the mode type=0 is buged )
.TP
xset("mark",markid,marksize)
: is used to set the current mark and current mark size.
.TP
xset("pattern",value)
: to set the current pattern for filling functions, value is an integer 
projected in the interval [0,whiteid]. 0 is used for black filling and 
whiteid for white. The value of whiteid can be obtained with xget("white").
.TP
xset("thickness",value)
: fixes the thickness of lines in pixel  ( 0 and 1 have the same meaning : 1 pixel thick)
.TP
xset("wdim",width,height)
: fixes the width and height of the current graphic window. This option is not
used by the postscript driver.
.TP
xset("wpos",x,y);
: fixes the position of the upper left point of the graphic window.
Known trouble : it doesn't work under xscilab.
.TP
xset("window",window-number)
Set the current window to the window \fVwindow-number\fR and creates the window if 
it dosn't exists.
.TP
xset("use color",flag)
if flag=1 then xset("pattern",.) or xset("dashes",.) will be used so
as to change the default Color for drawing or for filling patterns. 
If flag=0 then we switch back to the gray and dashes mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
X11 documentation
.SH AUTHOR
J.Ph.C.


