.TH printf 1 "May 1994" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so man1/sci.an
.SH NAME
printf,fprintf,sprintf - Emulator of C language printf functions
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
printf(format,value_1,..,value_n)
fprintf(file,format,value_1,..,value_n)
str=sprintf(format,value_1,..,value_n)
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
format
: a Scilab string. Specifies a character string combining literal characters with conversion
specifications.
.TP
value_i
: Specifies the data to be converted according to the format parameter.
.TP
str
: column vector of character strings
.TP
file
: a Scilab string specifying a file name or a logical unit number (see \fVfile\fR)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fVprintf\fR function converts, formats, and writes its
\fVvalue\fR parameters, under control of the \fVformat\fR parameter,
to the standard output.
.PP
The \fVfprintf\fR function converts, formats, and writes
its \fVvalue\fR parameters, under control of the \fVformat\fR
parameter, to the file specified by its \fVfile\fR parameter.
.PP
The \fVsprintf\fR function converts, formats, and stores its
\fVvalue\fR parameters, under control of the \fVformat\fR parameter.
.PP
The \fVformat\fR parameter is a character string that contains two
types of objects:
.TP 10
Literal characters
: which are copied to the output stream.
.TP
Conversion specifications
: each of which causes zero or more items
to be fetched from the \fVvalue\fR parameter list.
.PP

If there are not enough items for \fVformat\fR in the
\fVvalue\fR parameter list, \fVsprintf\fR generate an error.
If any \fVvalue\fRs remain after the entire \fVformat\fR has been
processed, they are ignored.

Conversion Specifications

Each conversion specification in the \fVformat\fR parameter
has the following syntax:

.TP 10
-
A % (percent) sign.
.TP
-
Zero or more \fVoptions\fR, which modify the meaning of the
conversion specification.
The following list contains the \fVoption\fR characters and their
meanings:
.RS
.TP 8
-
: Left align, within the field, the result of the conversion.
.TP
+
: Begin the result of a signed conversion with a sign (+ or -).
.TP
"space"
: Prefix a space character to the result if the first character of a
signed conversion is not a sign.
If both the (space) and + options appear, the (space) option is
ignored.
.TP
#
: Convert the value to an alternate form.
For \fVc\fR, \fVd\fR, \fVi\fR, \fVs\fR, and \fVu\fR conversions, the \fV#\fR
option has no effect.
For \fVo\fR conversion, \fV#\fR increases the precision to force the first
digit of the result to be a 0 (zero).
For \fVx\fR and \fVX\fR conversions, a nonzero result has 0x or 0X
prefixed to it.
For \fVe, E, f, g,\fR and \fVG\fR conversions, the result always
contains a decimal point, even if no digits follow it.
For \fVg\fR and \fVG\fR conversions, trailing zeros are not removed
from the result.
.TP
0
: Pad to the field width, using leading zeros (following any indication of
sign or base) for \fVd\fR, \fVi\fR, \fVo\fR, \fVu\fR, \fVx\fR,
\fVX\fR, \fVe\fR, \fVE\fR, \fVf\fR, \fVg\fR, and \fVG\fR conversions;
no space padding is performed.
If the \fV0\fR and \fV\-\fR (dash) flags both appear, the \fV0\fR flag
is ignored.
For \fVd\fR, \fVi\fR, \fVo\fR \fVu\fR, \fVx\fR, and \fVX\fR
conversions, if a precision is specified, the \fV0\fR flag is also
ignored.
.RE
.PP
An optional decimal digit string that specifies the minimum field
width.
If the converted value has fewer characters than the field width, the
field is padded on the left to the length specified by the field
width.
If the left-adjustment option is specified, the field is padded on the
right.
.PP
An optional precision.
The precision is a \fV.\fR (dot) followed by a decimal digit string.
If no precision is given, the parameter is treated as 0 (zero).
The precision specifies:
.RS
.TP
-
The minimum number of digits to appear for \fVd\fR, \fVu\fR,
\fVo\fR, \fVx\fR, or \fVX\fR conversions
.TP
-
The number of digits to appear after the decimal point for
\fVe\fR, \fVE\fR, and \fVf\fR conversions
.TP
-
The maximum number of significant digits for \fVg\fR and \fVG\fR
conversions
.TP
-
The maximum number of characters to be printed from a string in
an \fVs\fR conversion
.RE
.TP 
-
A character that indicates the type of conversion to be applied:
.RS
.TP 6
%
: Performs no conversion.  Displays %.
.TP
d,i
:Accepts an integer \fVvalue\fR and converts it to signed decimal
notation.
The precision specifies the minimum number of digits to appear.
If the value being converted can be represented in fewer digits, it is
expanded with leading zeros.
The default precision is 1.
The result of converting a zero value with a precision of zero is a
null string.
Specifying a field width with a zero as a leading character causes the
field width value to be padded with leading zeros.
.TP 
u
:Accepts an integer \fVvalue\fR and converts it to unsigned decimal
notation.
The precision specifies the minimum number of digits to appear.
If the value being converted can be represented in fewer digits, it is
expanded with leading zeros.
The default precision is 1.
The result of converting a zero value with a precision of zero is a
null string.
Specifying a field width with a zero as the leading character causes the
field width value to be padded with leading zeros.
.TP 
o
:Accepts an integer \fVvalue\fR and converts it to unsigned octal notation.
The precision specifies the minimum number of digits to appear.
If the value being converted can be represented in fewer digits, it is
expanded with leading zeros.  The default precision is 1.
The result of converting a zero value with a precision of zero is
a null string.
Specifying a field width with a zero as the leading character causes the
field width value to be padded with leading zeros.
An octal value for field width is not implied.
.TP 
x, X
:Accepts an integer \fVvalue\fR and converts it to unsigned hexadecimal
notation.
The letters ``abcdef'' are used for the \fVx\fR conversion;
the letters ``ABCDEF'' are used for the \fVX\fR conversion.
The precision specifies the minimum number of digits to appear.
If the value being converted can be represented in fewer digits, it is
expanded with leading zeros.  The default precision is 1.
The result of converting a zero value with a precision of zero is a
null string.
Specifying a field width with a zero as the leading character causes the
field width value to be padded with leading zeros.
.TP 
f
: Accepts a float or double \fVvalue\fR and converts it to decimal
notation in the format %[\-]\fVddd.ddd\fR.
The number of digits after the decimal point is equal to the precision
specification.
.RS
.TP
-
If no precision is specified, six digits are output.
.TP
-
If the precision is zero, no decimal point appears and the system
outputs a number rounded to the integer nearest to \fVvalue\fR.
.TP
-
If a decimal point is output, at least one digit is output before it.
.RE
.TP
e, E
:Accepts a real  and converts it to the
exponential form %[\-]\fVd.ddde\fR+/\-\fVdd\fR.
There is one digit before the decimal point, and the number of digits
after the decimal point is equal to the precision specification.
.RS
.TP 30
-
If no precision is specified,
, six digits are output.
.TP
-
If the precision is zero,
, no decimal point appears.
.TP
-
The \fVE\fR conversion character 
produces a number with E instead of e before the exponent.
The exponent always contains at least two digits.
If the value is zero, the exponent is zero.
.RE
.TP 
g, G
: Accepts a real  and converts it in
the style of the \fVe\fR, \fVE\fR, or \fVf\fR conversion characters,
with the precision specifying the number of significant digits.
Trailing zeros are removed from the result.
A decimal point appears only if it is followed by a digit.
The style used depends on the value converted.
Style \fVe\fR (\fVE\fR, if \fVG\fR is the flag used) results only if
the exponent resulting from the conversion is less than \-4, or if it
is greater or equal to the precision.
.TP 
c
:Accepts and displays an integer value converted to a character.
.TP 
s
:Accepts a string \fVvalue\fR  and displays
characters from the string to the end or the number of characters indicated by the precision is
reached.
If no precision is specified, all characters up to the end
are displayed.
.RE
A field width or precision can be indicated by an \fV*\fR (asterisk)
instead of a digit string.
In this case, an integer \fVvalue\fR parameter supplies the field
width or precision.
The \fVvalue\fR parameter converted for output is not fetched until
the conversion letter is reached, so the parameters specifying field
width or precision must appear before the value to be converted (if any).

If the result of a conversion is wider than the field width, the field
is expanded to contain the converted result.

The representation of the plus sign depends on whether the
\fV+\fR or (space) formatting option is specified.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
fahr=120
sprintf('%3d Fahrenheit = %6.1f Celsius',fahr,(5/9)*(fahr-32)) 

printf('Result is:\nalpha=%f",0.535)

u=file('open','results','unknown') //open the result file
t=0:0.1:2*%pi;
for tk=t
 fprintf(u,'time = %6.3f value = %6.3f',tk,sin(tk)) // write a line
end
file('close',u) //close the result file
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
string, print, write, format, disp, file



