pegelow@moorea.uni-muenster.de (Ulrich Pegelow),
Fritz.heinrichmeyer@fernuni-hagen.de (Johann Friedrich Heinrichmeyer),
jon@mast.QueensU.CA (Jon Davis), and I have ported DLD to Linux.

"DLD" is a library package of C functions that performs "dynamic link
editing".  Programs that use dld can add compiled object code to or
remove such code from a process anytime during its execution.  Loading
modules, searching libraries, resolving external references, and
allocating storage for global and static data structures are all
performed at run time.

It resides in:
tsx-11.mit.edu:/pub/linux/sources/libs/dld-src-3.2.4.tar.gz
tsx-11.mit.edu:/pub/linux/binaries/libs/dld-bin-3.2.4.tar.gz

New in dld-3.2.4 is:

	From: "Cesare Mastroianni" <cece@dist.dist.unige.it>
	* dld.texinfo (dld_perror): added.

	From:  Aubrey Jaffer  (jaffer@jacal)
	* find_exec.c (dld_find_executable): added stat check for linux so
	that it doesn't think directories with the same name as the
	program are executable.

The original, with postscript papers, is available from
prep.ai.mit.edu:pub/gnu/dld-3.2.3.tar.gz.

First, from the dld directory, type `make check' (or `make' for no
tests).  This will make libdld.a and then make and run the test
programs in subdirectory `test'.

Examine the output.  The output from the "general" test should look
similar to "test/EXPECTED_OUTPUT".  The other tests should print no
error messages

If this is satisfactory, typing `make install' will copy libdld.a into
/usr/local/lib/, dld.h into /usr/local/include, and dld.info into
/usr/local/info/.  These locations can be changed in "Makefile".

	Aubrey Jaffer (jaffer@zurich.ai.mit.edu)
	Tue Dec  7 22:48:22 GMT 1993

Here is the original README:
================================================================
This is dld version 3.2.3.  It currently supports VAX (Ultrix), Sun 3
(SunOS 3.4 and 4.0), SPARCstation (SunOS 4.0), Sequent Symmetry
(Dynix), and Atari ST.

To compile,  type "make".
To compile the test programs, cd to "test" and then type "make".

Changes from 3.2.1 to 3.2.3 is minimal.  Mainly contains the port to
Atari and Symmetry.  I've received quite a number of suggestions for
improvements, new features, and debugging support.  I'll incorporate
them in release 3.3--whenever I have time to work on it!

Wilson Ho (how@cs.ucdavis.edu)
Wed May 29 22:21:31 PDT 1991

P.S.  Port for Atari is contributed by Edgar Roeder.  See ChangeLog.
