.TH man G "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Format"
.SH NAME
man -  on line help source file description format
.SH DESCRIPTION
The on line help source files are written in
a subset of the old text formatting language \fVgroff\fR. The
advantage of this language is to allow the most useful formatting,
being quite simple. It also allows easy translation in other formatting
language like HTML or LaTeX.

Source files (with extension .man) can  be found in the <SCIDIR>/man/*
directories. The file name is associated to the keyword (usually a
function name) it describes.


Most  \fVgroff\fR commands begin by a dot as first character of a
line. The first line of each man file must be: 
.nf
 .TH <keyword> 1 "date" "Author" "Category"

.fi

The help is then split into a sequence of "sections". Each section begins
with the  \fVgroff\fR command \fV.SH <section name>\fR. 
.LP
To give a uniform aspect to
the scilab on-line help Scilab   uses the following sections names:
.TP 17
NAME 
: This section gives the keyword(s) documented in this file, on
keyword per line followed by a minus sign and a short description of
the keyword. Below is the example of the NAME section extracted from the
mfscanf.man file.
.nf
 --------------------------------------------
 mscanf  - interface to the C scanf function 
 mfscanf - interface to the C fscanf function 
 msscanf - interface to the C sscanf function 
 --------------------------------------------
.fi
.TP
CALLING SEQUENCE
:
Here one gives the Scilab syntaxe(s) which can be used. Below is an
example extracted out of the mfscanf.man file:
.nf
 ---------------------------------
 .nf
 [n,v_1,...v_n]=mfscanf(fd,format)
 L=mfscanf(fd,format)

 [n,v_1,...v_n]=mscanf(format)
 L=mscanf(format)
 
 [n,v_1,...v_m]=msscanf(format,str)
 L=msscanf(format)
 .fi
 ---------------------------------
.fi
The \fV.nf\fR, \fV.fi\fR pair of commands is used to specify an unformatted region.
.TP
PARAMETERS
:
Here is given an indented itemized sequence of the parameters description 
first item  is defined using the  \fV.TP n\fR command, where \fVn\fR
is a number of characters. The following items begin with the command
\fV.TP\fR as shown on the following example extracted out of the
file.man file:
.nf
 --------------------------------------------
 .TP 10
 file-name
 : string, file name of the file to be opened
 .TP 
 status
 : string, The status of the file to be opened
 .RS
 .TP 5
 "new" 
 : file must not exist new file (default)
 .TP
 "old" 
 : file must already exists.
 .RE
 .TP 
 access
 : string, The type of access to the file
 --------------------------------------------
.fi
The \fV.RS\fR \fV.RE\fR pair of commands are used to nest an itemized sequence in an other.
.TP
DESCRIPTION
:
Here one describes the keyword
.TP
EXAMPLE
:
This section gives some examples of the use of the keyword. This must
be a sequence of Scilab instruction enclosed in a \fV.nf\fR, \fV.fi\fR
pair of commands. 
.TP
SEE ALSO
:
Here are given a one line sequence of related keywords separed by a comma
followed by a blank as in the example below. 
.nf
---------------------------------------------------------------------
mclose, meof, mfprintf, fprintfMat, mfscanf, fscanfMat, mget, mgetstr
---------------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.TP
AUTHOR
:
Here one gives informations on the author and references.
.RE

The fonts changes are specified in the formatted text by groff
commands like 
.nf
 \fV for verbatim
 \fR for Roman
.fi
Below is an example extracted out of the mfscanf.man file, the
keywords are required to be in verbatim font.
.nf
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 The \fVmfscanf\fR function reads characters from the stream \fVfd\fR.
 .LP
 The \fVmscanf\fR function reads characters from Scilab window. 
 .LP
 The \fVmsscanf\fR function reads characters from the string \fVstr\fR.
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
The \fV.LP\fR command is used to define a line break.
.LP

Some time it is useful to define tables. An example of such table
formatting may be found in the file \fVoverloading.man\fR:
.nf
 -------------------
 .TS
 tab(@);
 l l.
 string@c
 polynomial@p
 function@m
 constant@s
 list@l
 tlist@<tlist_type>
 boolean@b
 sparse@sp
 boolean sparse@spb
 .TE
 -------------------
.fi
These commands define a two column, left aligned(\fV l l.\fR),
table. The column separator (\fV@\fR) is specified here by the
\fVtab(@);\fR command.
.LP
.SH FORMATTING MAN FILES
These source files may then be used to generate pure ASCII 
or LaTeX or HTML formatted files using the Scilab function
\fVformatman\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
formatman, help
