.TH scilab 1 "May 1994" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
scilab  - Major unix script to execute Scilab and miscellaneous tools
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
scilab [-ns -nw -display display -f file -args arguments]
scilab -help [ <key> ]
scilab -k <key>
scilab -xk <key>
scilab -link <objects>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
scilab [-ns -nw -display display -f path -args arguments]
: run scilab. 
.RS
.TP 
\fV-ns\fR
:if this option is  present the startup file
\fVSCI/scilab.star\fR is not executed. 
.TP
\fV-nw\fR
:if this option is present then 
scilab is not run in an X window. 
.TP
\fV-f file\fR
: if this option is present then Scilab script
\fVfile\fR is executed first into Scilab. 
.TP
\fV-args arguments\fR
: if this option is present arguments are passed to Scilab. They
can then be got by sciargs function. For multi arguments passing use a
quoted, blank separated sequence of words like:
 \fVscilab -args 'foo1 foo2'\fR
.RE
.TP
scilab -help <key>
: write on-line documentation about <key> (usually automatically called 
by scilab command "help <key>").
Example:
.nf
scilab -help plot3d
.fi
.TP
scilab -k <key>
: gives the list of Scilab commands containing the 
keyword <key> in their description (same as UNIX command \fVman -k\fR) 
.TP
scilab -xk <key>
: gives the list of Scilab commands containing the 
keyword <key> in their description in a X window.
.TP
scilab -link <objects>
: Is used to produce a local \fVscilex\fR (executable code
of Scilab) linked with the  additional files given by the 
user in \fV<objects>\fR.

If, in the list of object files, some names are known from 
\fVSCIDIR/routines/default\fR, then the \fVscilex\fR default 
files are omitted and replaced with the given ones .

This command also produces an \fVxscilab\fR script, which when called 
will ran the new generated scilex file.
.LP
For example:
.nf
scilab -link  C/interf.o C/evol.o C/bib.a
.fi
will create a new \fVscilex\fR file in which the default \fVinterf.o\fR 
file will be replaced by \fVC/interf.o\fR.
