.TH linpro 1 "April 1993" "Scilab Group" "Scilab Function"
.so man1/sci.an 
.SH NAME
linpro - linear programming solver
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[x,f,lagr,info]=linpro(x0,p,c,d,ci,cs,mi,modo [,imp])
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
x0 
: initial guess (given if \fVmodo = 3\fR)
.TP
p 
: real vector of dimension \fVn\fR
.TP
c 
: matrix of dimension \fVn x (mi + md)\fR
(If no constraints are given, set \fVc = 0\fR)
.TP
d 
: RHS vector of dimension \fVmi + md\fR
.TP
ci 
: vector of lower-bounds.
If \fVx\fR is not bounded from below, put \fVci = 0\fR.
If some components of \fVx\fR are bounded from below,
set the other (unconstrained) values of \fVci\fR to a very 
large negative  number (e.g. \fVci(j) = -(% eps)^(-1)\fR.
.TP
cs 
: vector of upper-bounds. (Same remarks as above).
.TP
mi 
: number of equality constraints.
.TP
modo     
: it indicates the way the process begins
.RS
.TP
1  
: no initial point has been given. The
program computes a feasible initial point
that is a vertex of the region of feasible points.
.TP
2  
: no initial point has been given. The program
computes a feasible initial point that is not
necessarily a vertex. This value of  \fVmodo\fR is
advisable when the quadratic form is positive
definite and there are a few constraints in
the problem or when there are large bounds
on the variables that are security bounds and
very probably  no actives at the solution.
.TP
3  
: an initial point is given
.RE
.TP
imp 
: verbose option
.TP
x 
: optimal solution found.
.TP
f 
: optimal value of the cost function
.TP
lagr 
: vector of Lagrange multipliers. 
If lower and upper-bounds are provided, \fVlagr\fR has 
\fVn + mi + md\fR components :
.RS
.TP
lagr(1:n)
: is the multiplier vector associated with the
bound constraints.
.TP
lagr (n+1 : n + mi + md)
: is the multiplier vector
associated with the \fVci\fR's constraints.
(If an upper-bound (resp. lower-bound) constraint \fVi\fR is active 
\fVlagr(i)\fR is > 0 (resp. <0).
If no bounds are provided, vector lagr has only \fVmi + md\fR
components and is the multiplier associated with the \fVci\fR's.
.RE
.TP
info 
: integer variable with following meaning
.RS
.TP 10
  1
: more iterations than the limit given by the program were
necessary.
.TP
  0 
: normal output.
.TP
 -1 
: the cost function is not bounded from below
.TP
 -2 
: cycling limit point no convergence...
.TP
 -3 
: unbounded solution
.TP
 -4 
: incorrect inputs
.TP
-12 
: no feasible solution
.TP
-13 
: degenerate starting point
.TP
-14 
: no feasible point has been found.
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Minimize \fVp'*x\fR
.PP
under the constraints 
.nf
 c(:,j)'x = d(j), j=1,...,mi
 c(:,j)'x <=d(j), j=mi+1,...,mi+md
 ci(i) <= x(i) <= cs(i), i=1,...,n
.fi
